Feat(plugins): Add the avd ipaddress filter (#1833)
aristanetworks/ansible-avd: ansible_collections/arista/avd/plugins/README.md

!!! Note this is not using the same range syntax as EOS for modular or break-out ports. On EOS `et1/1-2/4` gives you `et1/1, et1/2, et1/3, et1/4, et2/1, et2/2, et2/3, et2/4` on a fixed switch, but a different result on a modular switch depending on the module types. In AVD the same range would be `et1-2/1-4`

### IP Address filters

Four filters are currently supported to handle all of the IP Address related calculations.

#### ipaddr filter

> The ```arista.avd.ipaddr``` filter provides the capabilities to calculate all IP address related functionality like, `subnet`, `address`, `subnet size`, `network ip` etc. The input can be an IP address or a list of IP addresses and the output will be of similar data-type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `arista.avd.ipaddr` filter provides capabilities to manipulate IP addresses. It supports operations like `subnet`, `address`, `subnet size`, `network ip`, etc... The input can be an IP address or a list of IP addresses and the output will be of similar data-type.
```

> This filter supports both `IPv4` and `IPv6` version types. If no IP version is specified, then the filter calculates for both of the versions. This filter takes two arguments apart from the IP address(es) as input, which are `method` and `version`. The supported versions are `4`, and `6` (integers), which represent the **ipv4** and **ipv6** respectively. The supported `methods` are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This filter supports both `IPv4` and `IPv6` version types. If no IP version is specified, then the filter calculates for both of the versions. This filter takes two arguments apart from the IP address(es) as input, which are `method` and `version`. The supported versions are `4`, and `6` (integers), which represent the **ipv4** and **ipv6** address families respectively. The supported `methods` are:
```

> 1) `validate`: Returns the valid IP addresses or Network IPs based on the version type. If no version number is provided then both IPv4 and IPv6 IPs are returned based on the input data-type(string or list). This is the default method in the `ipaddr` filter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) `validate`: Returns the valid IP addresses or Network IPs based on the version type. If no version number is provided then both IPv4 and IPv6 IPs are returned based on the input data-type (string or list). This is the default method in the `ipaddr` filter.
```

    ```example
    ip_pool = ['192.168.0.1', '192.168.0', 'fe08::1', '192.168.1.0/24', '', True, 'test12.com']
    {{ ip_pool | arista.avd.ipaddr }}
    Output: ['192.168.0.1', 'fe08::1', '192.168.1.0/24']
    ```

>     The below method is same as above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    which is equivalent to:
```

    ```example
    ip_pool = ['192.168.0.1', '192.168.0', 'fe08::1', '192.168.1.0/24', '', True, 'test12.com']
    {{ ip_pool | arista.avd.ipaddr('validate') }}
    Output: ['192.168.0.1', 'fe08::1', '192.168.1.0/24']
    ```

> 1) `address`: Returns the valid IP address(es) only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) `address`: Returns the valid IP address(es) only.
```

    ```example
    ip_pool = ['192.168.0.1', '192.168.0', 'fe08::1', '192.168.1.0/24', '', True]
    {{ ip_pool | arista.avd.ipaddr('address') }}
    Output: ['192.168.0.1', 'fe08::1']
    ```

> 1) `net`: Returns only the Network IPs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3) `net`: Returns only the Network IPs.
```

Reviewer: Looks like it returns also the `Network/Mask` according to the example

Author: Yeah, but this filters only the Network IPs from the given list.

Author: This is an md hack for numbering. Use 1) always and it will auto calculate the numbers.

Reviewer: Does it work in mkdocs?

Reviewer: Just tested it and seems to work as well in mkdocs (though the expected syntax is `1.` rather than `1)` and the Github syntax also recommends using `1.` syntax: https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax#lists

    ```example
    ip_pool = ['192.168.0.1', '192.168.0', 'fe08::1', '192.168.1.0/24', '', True]
    {{ ip_pool | arista.avd.ipaddr('net') }}
    Output: ['192.168.1.0/24']
    ```

> 1) `subnet`: Calculates and returns the Network IP of the provided input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4) `subnet`: Calculates and returns the Network IP of the provided input. If no subnet mask if present, this assumes `/32` for IPv4 and `/128` for IPv6.
```

    ```example
    ip_pool = ['192.168.0.1', 'fe08::1', '192.168.1.0/24', '192.168.1.20/28']
    {{ ip_pool | arista.avd.ipaddr('subnet') }}
    Output: ['192.168.0.1/32', 'fe08::1/128', '192.168.1.0/24', '192.168.1.16/28']
    ```

> 1) `netmask`: Calculates the subnet mask of the provided IP address(es).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5) `netmask`: Calculates the subnet mask of the provided IP address(es). If no subnet mask if present, this assumes `/32` for IPv4 and `/128` for IPv6.
```

    ```example
    ip_pool = ['192.168.0.1', 'fe08::1', '192.168.1.0/24', '192.168.0.70/26']
    {{ ip_pool | arista.avd.ipaddr('netmask') }}
    Output: ['255.255.255.255', 'ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff', '255.255.255.0', '255.255.255.192']
    ```

> 1) `prefix`: Calculates and returns the Network Prefix(es) for the provided IP address(es). Return value is an integer or list of integers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6) `prefix`: Calculates and returns the Network Prefix(es) for the provided IP address(es). Return value is an integer or list of integers.
```

Reviewer: it looks like it returns the network prefix length cf definition of the network prefix here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subnetwork

Author: Yes, it is. Let me keep this discussion open. The reason to have this prefix is to preserve the old name (from ansible.netcommon.ipaddr)

Author: But I agree, this should be prefixlen. I will change it.

    ```example
    ip_pool = ['192.168.0.1', 'fe08::1', '192.168.1.0/24', '192.168.0.4/26']
    {{ ip_pool | arista.avd.ipaddr('prefix') }}
    Output: [32, 128, 24, 26]
    ```

> 1) `size`: Calculates and returns the number of IP address(es) possible in the provided pool(s). Return value is an integer or list of integers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7) `size`: Calculates and returns the number of IP address(es) possible in the provided pool(s). Return value is an integer or list of integers.
```

    ```example
    ip_pool = ['192.168.0.1', 'fe08::1', '192.168.1.0/24', '192.168.0.4/26']
    {{ ip_pool | arista.avd.ipaddr('size') }}
    Output: [1, 1, 256, 64]
    ```

> 1) `network`: Calculates and returns the Network IP address(es).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8) `network`: Calculates and returns the Network IP address(es).
```

    ```example
    ip_pool = ['192.168.0.1', 'fe08::1', '192.168.1.0/24', '192.168.0.70/26']
    {{ ip_pool | arista.avd.ipaddr('network') }}
    Output: ['192.168.0.1', 'fe08::1', '192.168.1.0', '192.168.1.64']
    ```

> 1) `defaultattr`: When the provided input method type doesn't with any of the above, then this method is invoked. Useful when the input method is not actually a method but an IP pool or a number. When the input argument is an integer then IP address corresponding to that number is returned. When an IP pool is provided as an argument then all of the input addresses which are subset of the IP pool are returned (last example).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9) `defaultattr`: When the provided input method type doesn't match with any of the above, then this method is invoked. Useful when the input method is not actually a method but an IP pool or a number. When the input argument is an integer then IP address corresponding to that number is returned. When an IP pool is provided as an argument then all of the input addresses which are subset of the IP pool are returned (last example).
```

Reviewer: Looks like this is not complete - from examples the argument can be an integer or an integer given as a string ?

Reviewer: This method looks to be doing too many things at once with a very different outcome depending on the type or parseable type of the input - do we have use cases for this?

Author: Yes, we need this filter. Because we will be able to calculate the **i**th IP just by ipaddr(i).
